Release: decK 1.28 (#6420)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/deck/reference/deck_file_validate.md

---
title: deck file validate
source_url: https://github.com/Kong/deck/tree/main/cmd/file_validate.go
content_type: reference
---

> The validate command reads the state file and ensures validity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The validate command reads the state file and ensures its validity.
```

> It reads all the specified state files and reports YAML/JSON

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It reads all the specified state files and reports any YAML/JSON
```

> parsing issues. It also checks for foreign relationships

Reviewer: ```suggestion
parsing issues. Additionally, it checks for foreign relationships
```

> and alerts if there are broken relationships, or missing links present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and alerts in cases of broken relationships or missing links.
```

No communication takes places between decK and Kong during the execution of

> this command. This is faster than the online validation, but catches fewer errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this command. This process is faster than online validation but may catch fewer errors.
```
